
=head1 Open-Xchange Admin SOAP Interface documentation and examples

This document describes the Open-Xchange Admin SOAP Interface and
gives some brief examples on how to use it.

=head2 Architecture

The SOAP service communicates with the Admin Daemon using the RMI
interface. In fact, the Admin SOAP service is just a mapper between
RMI and SOAP.

   --------------             --------------              -------------
  |              |           |              |            |             |
  | Admin Daemon | <- RMI -> | SOAP Service | <- SOAP -> | SOAP client |
  |              |           |              |            |             |
   --------------             --------------              -------------


=head2 Installation and Configuration

In order to use the SOAP Interface of the Open-Xchange Admin Daemon,
you need the Open-Xchange Server and the Axis2 bundle. The SOAP
Interface is a service that must be deployed into the Axis2 Bundle.

For more information about the Axis2 bundle, please refer to the
Quick-OX-Axis2-Integration-Overview document, that ships with the
Axis2 bundle.

The default configuration of the Admin SOAP service expects the Admin
Daemon to be accessible on localhost. To change this behaviour, the
file
C</opt/open-xchange/etc/admindaemon/plugin/open-xchange-admin-soap.properties>
must changed accordingly. Just set C<RMI_HOSTNAME> to something
different.

=head2 How to check, if the SOAP service is installed and working?

To check whether the Admin SOAP service is installed and working,
point your browser to the URL
http://localhost/servlet/axis2/services/OXContextService?wsdl

It should display the WSDL (Web Services Description Language) file of
the OXContextService.

If that does not work, check the logfile of the Open-Xchange Server.

=head2 What services do exist?

=over

=item OXContextService

Context related service.

=item OXUtilService

Util related service.

=item OXUserService

User related service.

=item OXGroupService

Group related service.

=item OXResourceService

Resource related service.

=back

For an explanation of these services, refer to the RMI javadoc
documentation as shipped with the Open-Xchange Admin Daemon and the
Open-Xchange Hosting Plugin (packages C<open-xchange-admin-doc> and
C<open-xchange-admin-plugin-hosting-doc>).

=cut
